HIGHEST COURT IN THE LAND, AS
THE JUSTICES UPHELD A DECISION
BY MICHIGAN VOTERS TO BAN
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN COLLEGE
ADMISSIONS.
GOOD EVENING,I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
THE SUPREME COURT ALSO HEARD
ARGUMENTS IN A CASE PITTING
BROADCASTERS AGAINST AN INTERNET
START-UP, THAT COULD DECIDE THE
FUTURE OF TELEVISION.
>> Ifill: PLUS, IT'S NOT
JURASSIC PARK, BUT IT'S CLOSE.
WE EXPLORE HOW SCIENTISTS ARE
TRYING TO BRING THE WOOLY
MAMMOTH AND OTHER EXTINCT
SPECIES, BACK TO LIFE.
>> IT OPENS THE DOOR TO THIS
BRAND NEW FUTURE OF
CONSERVATION, IN WHICH WE CAN
FINALLY SHIFT GEARS FROM
THINKING WE'RE LOSING LIFE ON
THIS PLANET, TO THE FACT THAT WE
ARE ACTUALLY GAINING IT BACK.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
IN SOUTH SUDAN HAVE BEEN KILLED
IN WHAT THE UNITED NATIONS IS
CALLING ETHNIC SLAUGHTER.
U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS OFFICIALS SAY
REBELS FROM THE ETHNIC NUER
GROUP, SEIZED THE CITY OF BENTIU
LAST WEEK AND MURDERED PEOPLE
WHO SOUGHT SAFETY IN A MOSQUE.
THESE GRAPHIC IMAGES RELEASED BY
THE U.N. SHOW BODIES IN THE
STREETS, AND EARTH-MOVING
MACHINES CARRYING AWAY REMAINS
FOR BURIAL IN A MASS GRAVE.
A U.N. TEAM WITNESSED THE
AFTERMATH OF THE KILLINGS.
>> DURING THE PAST FEW DAYS,
BENTE WAS SEEN AS VNT, VERY
TARGETED, DELIBERATE VIOLENCE
THAT STRUCK INDIVIDUALS OF
CERTAINTY IDENTITIES, AND THINK
THAT'S WHAT I SO FAR HAVE SEEN
IN THE MOSQUE AND THE OTHER
PARTS OF TOWN HAS REALLY BEEN
VERY, VERY HEART-WRENCHING.
CERTAINLY ATROCITIES HAVE BEEN
COMMITTED ON A SIGNIFICANT
SCALE.
>> Woodruff: THE U.N.
INVESTIGATORS CHARGE THAT A
LOCAL RADIO STATION HELPED
INCITE THE KILLING BY
BROADCASTING HATE MESSAGES.
THAT'S SIMILAR TO HOW THE
GENOCIDE IN RWANDA BEGAN, 20
YEARS AGO THIS MONTH.
THE DEATH TOLL IN THE SOUTH
KOREAN FERRY DISASTER KEPT
CLIMBING TODAY, TO AT LEAST 113.
ABOUT 190 OTHERS ARE STILL
MISSING.
BEN CHAPMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS NARRATES THIS
REPORT ON THE RECOVERY
OPERATION.
>> Reporter: IT IS A DARK AND
DIFFICULT TASK.
A DIVER FOLLOWS A ROPE THROUGH
THE MURKY WATERS TO REACH THE
SUNKEN SHIP.
IDE OF STAIRCASES,
DOORWAYS AND WINDOWS FLOAT
BLANKETS AND LIFE JACKETS.
BUT HE IS INTERESTED ONLY IN THE
DEAD, RECOVERING THE BODIES OF
NEARLY TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE
TRAPPED INSIDE.
HE IS AMONG MORE THAN SEVEN
HUNDRED WORKERS AND MORE THAN
200 VESSELS INVOLVED IN THIS
MOST GRIM OF TASKS, WHERE
SUCCESS LOOKS LIKE THIS.
MORE THAN 100 BODIES HAVE NOW
BEEN BROUGHT ASHORE.
THE FAMILIES OF THOSE ON BOARD
STUDY DESCRIPTIONS OF THE DEAD
PINNED ON NOTICE BOARDS.
OTHERS SIMPLY STUDY THE SEA.
PLEASE SAVE THEM, THIS MAN
CRIES.
THE FAMILIES ARE URGING THE
GOVERNMENT TO SPEED UP THE
SEARCH.
THIS MAN SAYS PARENTS WOULD GO
INTO THE WATER THEMSELVES IF
THEY COULD.
BUT THEY KNOW TOO THAT HOPE IS
ALL BUT GONE.
THE DIVERS HAVE BEEN GIVEN JUST
TWO MORE DAYS BEFORE WORK BEGINS
TO RAISE THE SHIP TO THE
SURFACE.
ANGER CONTINUES TO GROW AT HOW
THIS COULD HAVE HAPPENED.
IT'S EMERGED CREW MEMBERS
REPEATEDLY ASKED THEIR OFFICERS
ABOUT TELLING PASSENGERS TO
ABANDON SHIP, BUT GOT NO
RESPONSE, AND THAT THE FERRY MAY
NOT HAVE TURNED SUDDENLY BEFORE
SINKING, AS FIRST THOUGHT.
FOR NOW, THERE REMAIN SO MANY
QUESTIONS, AND SO FEW ANSWERS.
>> Woodruff: NINE OF THE
VESSEL'S SURVIVING CREW MEMBERS,
INCLUDING THE CAPTAIN, HAVE
BEEN ARRESTED OR DETAINED AS
PART OF THE INVESTIGATION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA VISITED THE
COMMUNITY OF OSO, WASHINGTON,
TODAY, SITE OF LAST MONTH'S
DEADLY MUDSLIDE.
AT LEAST 41 PEOPLE DIED IN THE
DISASTER, AND DOZENS OF HOMES
WERE OBLITERATED.
THE PRESIDENT LANDED THIS
AFTERNOON AND  WENT STRAIGHT TO
HIS HELICOPTER, MARINE ONE, TO
FLY OVER THE SITE OF THE
MUDSLIDE.
HE ALSO MET WITH VICTIMS AND
FAMILY MEMBERS.
MR. OBAMA LEAVES TONIGHT FOR A
FOUR-NATION TOUR OF ASIA.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, SALES OF
EXISTING HOMES SLIPPED TO A 20-
MONTH LOW IN MARCH.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
REALTORS BLAMED THE DECLINE ON
RISING PRICES AND MORTGAGE
RATES, A TIGHTENING SUPPLY OF
HOMES AND WINTER WEATHER.
THERE WERE SOME SIGNS OF
IMPROVEMENT, THOUGH.
FIRST-TIME BUYERS ACCOUNTED FOR
30% OF SALES, THE MOST IN A
YEAR.
WALL STREET MOVED AHEAD FOR THE
SIXTH DAY IN A ROW.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 65 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,514.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 40 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,161.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED 7
POINTS TO FINISH AT 1,879.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
A BIG DAY AT THE SUPREME COURT:
JUSTICES UPHOLD A BAN ON
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION;
AND HEAR ARGUMENTS OVER ONE
STARTUP'S VISION FOR THE FUTURE
OF T.V.;
PLUS, THE EFFORT TO BRING
EXTINCT SPECIES BACK FROM THE
DEAD;
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN VISITS
UKRAINE;
AN UPDATE ON THE MORE THAN A
HUNDRED SCHOOL GIRLS ABDUCTED IN
NIGERIA;
AND IS $15 AN HOUR THE MINIMUMGN
EXPENSIVE PLACE LIKE SEATTLE?
>> Ifill: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
MADE IT'S REAPPEARANCE AT THE
SUPREME COURT TODAY, AS THE
JUSTICES WEIGHED IN ON A
MICHIGAN BALLOT INITIATIVE THAT
BANNED PUBLIC COLLEGES FROM
USING RACE AS A FACTOR IN
ADMISSIONS.
BY AN UNUSUALLY LOPSIDED 6-2
DECISION, THE JUSTICES DEALT A
BLOW TO PROPONENTS OF
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, ALLOWING
MICHIGAN TO JOIN SEVERAL OTHER
STATES THAT HAVE ALREADY BANNED
OR LIMITED THE PRACTICE.
FOR MORE ON THE COURT'S
REASONING, WE TURN TO MARCIA
COYLE OF "THE NATIONAL
LAW JOURNAL," WHO WAS AT THE
COURT TODAY.
THE DECISION TELLS THE TALE,
DOESN'T IT?
>> IT DOES, GWEN.
THE JUSTICES WHO WERE AMONG THE
6 HAD DIFFERENT REASONS FOR WHY
THEY CONCLUDED THAT THERE WAS
NOTHING WRONG WITH MICHIGAN'S
BAN HERE.
JUSTICE KENNEDY REALLY WROTE THE
READ OPINION, AND HE WAS JOINED
BY THE CHIEF JUSTICE AND
JUICETIES SAMUEL ALITO.
JUSTICE KENNEDY TOOK PAINS TO
MAKE CLEAR WHEN HE READ A
SUMMARY OF HIS OPINION FROM THE
BENCH THAT THIS CASE WAS REALLY
NOT ABOUT THE THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY OR THE MERITS
OF RACE-CONSCIOUS ADMISSIONS,
BUT IT WAS REALLY ABOUT WHO
SHOULD MAKE THE DETERMINATION
ABOUT THOSE MERITS, AND HE SAID
THAT THERE WAS NOTHING IN THE
CONSTITUTION OR THE COURT'S
EARLIER DECISIONS THAT ALLOWED
THE JUDICIARY, GIVE IT THE
AUTHORITY TO TAKE FROM THE
VOTERS UNDER THEIR OWN STATE
LAWS THE RIGHT TO DEBATE, LEARN
AND THEN ACT THROUGH THEIR
POLITICAL PROCESS TO RESOLVE
THAT DEBATE.
>> Ifill: WHAT WAS JUSTICE
BRIER'S REASONING TO SIDE WITH
WHAT'S CONSIDERED TO BE THE
CONSERVATIVE SIDE OF THE COURT?
>> WELL, JUSTICE BRIER TOOK A
VERY DIFFERENT TACK.
THE LOWER COURT HERE HAD RELIED
ON A 1982 SUPREME COURT DECISION
THAT BASICALLY SAID THAT YOU
CAN'T ALTER THE POLITICAL
PROCESSES OF GOVERNMENT TO
DISADVANTAGE MINORITIES.
AS BRIER'S TACK WAS, WELL, THIS
REALLY WASN'T AN ALTERING OF THE
POLITICAL PROCESSES, THIS WAS A
SHIFTING OF THE DECISIONMAKING
FROM UNELECTED COLLEGE OFFICIALS
TO THE PUBLIC THROUGH THEIR
VOTES.
SO HE TOOK THAT POSITION.
BUT IT WAS REALLY JUSTICES
SCALIA AND THOMAS IN AN OPINION
BY JUSTICE SCALIA THAT WENT
FARTHER THAN JUSTICE KENNEDY
WENT WITH THE MAIN OPINION.
FIRST OF ALL, THEY WOULD JUST
OVERRULE PRIOR DECISIONS TALKING
ABOUT ALTERING THE POLITICAL
PROCESSES, AND THEY WOULD ONLY
REALLY SEE AN EQUAL PROTECTION
VIOLATION IF VOTERS OR STATES
WERE ACTING WITH INTENTIONAL
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION.
>> Ifill: JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR
WAS ONE OF THE TWO, SHE AND
JUSTICE GINSBURG VIGOROUSLY
DISAGREED.
>> IT WAS AN IMPASSIONED AND
LENGTHY SUMMARY FROM THE BENCH
AND WHENEVER JUSTICES READ
PORTIONS OF THEIR DISSENT FROM
THE BENCH IT'S AN INDICATION OF
HOW STRONGLY THEY FEEL ABOUT THE
CASE.
SHE WAS JOINED BY JUSTICE
GINSBURG IN HER DISSENT AND SHE
SAID THIS WAS NOT ABOUT
PRODECIDES TO RESOLVE THE
DEBATE, THIS WAS ABOUT HOW YOU
DECIDE, AND WHAT MICHIGAN HAD
DONE HERE WAS CREATED TWO
DIFFERENT PLAYING FIELDS.
SHE SAID, FOR EXAMPLE, PARENTS,
FOR EXAMPLE WHO GRADUATED FROM
ONE OF MICHIGAN'S COLLEGES AND
WANTED THEIR CHILDREN TO GO
THERE COULD LOBBY THE COLLEGE
FOR A LEGACY PREFERENCE.
OTHER GROUPS COULD LOBBY COLLEGE
OFFICIALS FOR MAYBE SPORTS
PREFERENCES, BUT THE ONLY
PREFERENCE YOU CAN'T TALK TO
THEM ABOUT HERE IS RACE, AND THE
ONLY WAY THAT GROUPS INTERESTED
IN RACE PREFERENCES CAN GET THIS
CHANGE IS TO ACTUALLY AMEND THE
STATE CONSTITUTION, WHICH SHE
SAID IS A HERCULEAN TASK.
>> Ifill: BUT OTHER STATES
WHICH BANNED AFFIRMATIVE ACTION,
BASICALLY SENDS A SIGNIFICANCE
TOTHOERS THEY CAN DO THE SAME
THING.
>> I THINK WE'LL PROBABLY SEE --
THERE IS A VERY ACTIVE
ANTI-AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
COMMUNITY IN THIS COUNTRY AND I
THINK WE'LL SEE ATTEMPTS TO PUT
INITIATIVES ON BALLOTS OF STATES
TO ALLOW THAT.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT OTHER ARGUMENTS AT THE
COURT TODAY.
ANOTHER HIGH PROFILE CASE, THIS
ONE THEY SAY WILL DETERMINE THE
FUTURE OF TELEVISION AND
DISCLOSURE OF PBS WAS PART OF
IT.
>> RIGHT.
THE MAJOR NETWORK BROADCASTERS
HAVE CHALLENGED AN INTERNET
STARTUP CALLED A.E.R.E.O.,
CLAIMING ITS SYSTEM IS VIOLATING
THEIR EXCLUSIVE RIGHT UNDER THE
COPYRIGHT BECAUSE TO HAVE THEIR
PROGRAMS PUBLICLY PERFORMED.
A.E.R.E.O. USES THOUSANDS OF
DIME-SIZED ANTENNAS TO STREAM
LOCAL, OVER THE-AIR BROADCAST
PROGRAMS TO SUBSCRIBERS FOR A
FEE BUT DOES NOT FAY NETWORKS
FOR THE USE OF THAT PROGRAMMING
AND, TODAY, DURING THE
ARGUMENTS, THE LAWYER FOR
A.E.R.E.O. BASICALLY SAID WE'RE
AN EQUIPMENT PROVIDER, WE'RE THE
FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT OF WHAT
SOMEONE CAN DO WITH HOME-BASED
EQUIPMENT.
BUT THE BROADCAST NETWORKS ARGUE
THAT THEY'RE REALLY KIND OF
THIEVES, THAT THEY HAVE A
GIMMICK HERE AND THEY ARE TAKING
PROGRAMS AND NOT PAYING FOR
THEM, THEY'RE GETTING SOMETHING
FOR NOTHING.
DURING THE ARGUMENTS, I THOUGHT
THE JUSTICES WERE REALLY
WEIGHING BOTH SIDES HERE.
THE POTENTIAL DAMAGE TO THE
BROADCAST NETWORKS, IF THEY RULE
FOR A.E.R.E.O., AND THEN THE
DAMAGE TO A.E.R.E.O. IF THEY
RULE FOR THE NEGLECTS.
>> Ifill: HOW CAN YOU TELL
WHEN THE JUSTICES, HOW THEY'RE
TAKING IN THESE THINGS?
>> THERE ARE QUESTIONS.
FOR EXAMPLE, CHIEF JUSTICE
ROBERTS, HE SAID IT APPEARED TO
HIM THAT A.E.R.E.O.'S SYSTEM WAS
DESIGNED IN A WAY SIMPLY TO GET
AROUND COPYRIGHT LAWS, BUT ON
THE OTHER HAND HE COULD SEE A
COMPARISON TO GOING INTO RADIO
SHACK AND GETTING A D.V.R. TO
RECORD PROGRAMS TO WATCH LATER.
JUSTICE BRIER CONCERNED ABOUT
THE IMPACT OF RULING AGAINST
A.E.R.E.O. SAID, YOU KNOW, WHAT
EFFECT IS THIS GOING TO HAVE ON
CLOUD COMPUTING?
WE HEARD A LOT ABOUT THE CLOUD
TODAY.
>> Reporter: REALLY?
THAT'S UNUSUAL.
>> IT WAS FASCINATING.
THE JUSTICES HAVE TAKEN THE TIME
TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND THE NEW
TECHNOLOGY, AND THERE'S A
CONCERN IF THEY RULE AGAINST
A.E.R.E.O. THAT INNOVATION WILL
BE STYMIED.
>> Ifill: IT'S FASCINATING TO
LISTEN TO.
>> A GOOD ARGUMENT.
>> Ifill: THANKS VERY MUCH,
MARCIA.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Reporter: FOR MORE, WE TURN
THINGS TO JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Brown: JOINING US NOW, NEAL
KATYAL, THE FORMER ACTING
SOLICITOR GENERAL OF THE UNITED
STATES AND LEGAL ADVISER TO THE
BROADCASTERS.
AND GARY SHAPIRO, THE PRESIDENT
AND C.E.O. OF THE CONSUMER
ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION.
HIS ORGANIZATION FILED A BRI
WITH THE SUPREME COURT IN
SUPPORT OF AEREO.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
THRASH OUT A LITTLE BIT OF WHAT
MARCIA WAS JUST SAYING.
WHY SHOULD A.E.R.E.O. BE
SUBJECT?
WHY CAN'T IT USE ANTENNAS OVER
PUBLIC AIRWAYS TO OFFER SERVICES
TO CONSUMERS?
>> AS THE JUSTICES POINTED OUT,
EVERYONE ELSE WHO GRABS CONTENT
HAS TO PAY FOR IT AND THE
BROADCAST COMPANIES SPEND EACH
YEAR BILLIONS OF DOLLARS,
CREATING, ACQUIRING AND
DISTRIBUTING CONTENT AND IF AN
INTERLOCHER CAN COME ALONG LIKE
A.E.R.E.O., AND A.E.R.E.O.'S
BUSINESS MODEL IS ESSENTIALLY
GRABBING THOSE SIGNALS OVER THE
AIR, BUNDLING THEM TOGETHER AND
SELLING THEM FOR A PROFIT, WELL,
THEN, THE ENTIRE MODEL AND
PROMISE OF COPYRIGHT LAW IS
GOING TO BE DISRUPTED.
SO I THINK THE DEBATE TODAY IN
THE COURT REALLY PROPERLY
FOCUSED ON THE QUESTION, IT
WASN'T REALLY IS IT VIOLATING
THE COPYRIGHT LONG, I THINK
THERE WAS A LOT OF AGREEMENT
ABOUT THAT POINT, I THINK IT WAS
HOW BROADLY OR NARROWLY SHOULD
THE OPINION BE WRITTEN.
>> Brown: THE BROADCASTERS
PAID FOR THE CONTENT, WHY SHOULD
A.E.R.E.O. TAKE IT FOR FREE?
>> WE HAVE DIFFERENT ARGUMENTS
BECAUSE THERE IS A HUGE QUESTION
WHETHER A.E.R.E.O. VIOLATED THE
LAW AND IT'S WHAT THE SUPREME
COURT SAID IT IS.
BUT TWO COURTS SAID THEY HAVE
NOT VIOLATED THE LAW AND THE
STATUTE BARELY DISCUSSED AT THE
CASE IS CLEAR THEY DID NOT
VIOLATE THE LAW.
THE CABLEVISION CASE, A 2n
2nd CIRCUIT DECISION, WHICH
EVEN THE OPPONENTS OF A.E.R.E.O.
CONFESSED TODAY THAT DECISION
HAS TO BE FUNDAMENTALLY REVERSED
AT LEAST IN PRINCIPAL IF THEY
RULE IN FAVOR OF THE
BROADCASTERS.
SO THEY RELIED ON STATUTE AND
CASE LAW AND THIS GUY WENT OUT
AS AN ENTREPRENEUR, A GREAT
AMERICAN, SAID THIS IS THE LAW,
I'M GOING TO FOLLOW IT.
ANOTHER CASE IS THE SONY BETA
MAX CASE BUT I WAS INVOLVED IN A
LONG TIME AGO WHICH SAYS YOU
HAVE THE RIGHT AS A CONSUMER TO
RECORD OVER THE AIR TELEVISION.
SO THERE'S NO ONE QUESTIONING
THAT TODAY, BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO BE BECAUSE THAT'S A
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT.
>> Brown: EXCUSE ME.
THE QUESTION IS STILL DO YOU
HAVE A RIGHT TO MAKE MONEY OFF
RECORDING THAT?
>> SONY HAS THE RIGHT TO SELL
THE VCR AND A.E.R.E.O. HAS A
RIGHT TO SELL THE ANTENNA.
AS A.E.R.E.O. POINTED OUT,
THERE'S NOTHING DIFFERENT WE'RE
GOING BETWEEN AN ANTENNA LAW AND
INSTALLING IT IN PEOPLE'S HOUSE
US.
THE BROADCASTERS GET FOR FREE ON
LOAN PUBLIC SPECTRUM, OUT OF
THAT THEY HAVE THE OBLIGATION TO
PROVIDE A FREE, OVER-THE-AIR
SERVICE.
THE LAW CHANGED FROM 40 YEARS
AGO WHEN BROADCASTERS HAD 100%
OF THE MARKET SHARE.
NOW WE HAVE Smartphones,
LAPTOPS, TABLETS, NETBOOKS AND
DIFFERENT WAYS OF ACCESSING
INFORMATION.
LESS THAN 8% OF THE PEOPLE RELY
ON FREE OVER THE AIR TELEVISION.
THIS IS THE WAY PEOPLE GET IT.
IT'S THE NEW WORLD OF
TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: PUBLIC AIRWAYS,
NEW WORLD OF TECHNOLOGY?
>> YES, IT'S A COVER ARGUMENT,
UNFORTUNATELY THE ARGUMENT
CONGRESS PRECLUDED IN 1976, THEY
BRO THE COPYRIGHT LAW TO COVER
ANY DEVICE OR PROCESS THAT
EXISTS OR IS DEEMED TO EXIST IN
THE FUTURE THAT RETRANSMITS THE
BROADCAST SIGNAL.
THAT WAS A FUNDAMENTAL BALANCE
CONGRESS ENGAGED IN AT THAT
TIME.
THEY SAID WE NEED TO INCENTIVIZE
THE CREATION OF CONTENT, GOING
ALL THE WAY BACK TO FOUNDERS IN
THE 1787 CONSTITUTION AND SAID
THE WAY WE'LL DO THAT, YES,
BROADCASTERS, YOU HAVE PUBLIC
DUTY AND SPECTRUM AND THE RIGHT,
BE UH IF SOMEONE GRABS YOUR
SIGNALS FROM OVER THE AIR BE IT
A CABLE COMPANY OR ANYONE ELSE
AND TRIES TO MAKE IMLON, YOU
HAVE TO PAY FOR THE UNDERLYING
CONTENT, THAT'S THE AMERICAN
KAY.
AN INTERLOCHER CAN'T JUST COME
ALONG AND STEAL THE SIGNALS AND
MAKE MONEY OFF OF IT.
>IT.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN IT TO THE
GENERAL PUBLIC.
>> THE BROADCASTERS CREATED THE
STUFF, PAID FOR IT, WHY SHOULD
A.E.R.E.O. --
>> FOR THE SAME REASON, IT'S AN
ACCEPTED PBS, IT'S AN
ADVERTISER-SUPPORTED MEDIUM.
A.E.R.E.O. IS EXPANDING THE
AUDIENCE.
THERE ARE PEOPLE IN MAJOR CITIES
AND APARTMENTS THAT CAN'T GET AN
ANTENNA AND HAVE ACCESS.
THIS ALLOWS THEM THE SIGNAL THEY
ARE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE.
THEY ARE WATCHING COMMERCIALS.
WE'RE NOT SKIPPING COMMERCIALS.
WE'RE NOT DOING SOMETHING
OUTSIDE THE LOCAL AREA.
THEY'RE GETTING SIMPLY WHAT
THEY'RE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE WITH
THE SPECTRUM LENT TO THE
BROADCASTERS FOR THE FREE OVER
THE AIR SERVICE.
THE PROBLEM IS THE BROADCASTERS
CAN'T GET OVER THE RIGHT YOU
HAVE THE RIGHT TO RECORD IT AND
WHAT THE CABLE COMPANIES ARE
DOING IS LEGAL.
IF  IS GOING TO FIND
FOR BROADCASTERS, THEY'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO IGNORE THE STATUTE
AND THE SECOND CIRCUIT DECISION
AND TRY TO REVERSE IT IN
PRINCIPAL.
>> Brown: THIS HAS BEEN LOOKED
AT IN VERY BRAND TERMS AS IN THE
FUTURE OF TELEVISION.
IS THAT WHAT'S AT STAKE?
WHAT HAPPENS IF A.E.R.E.O. WINS?
>> I THINK IT'S A COLORFULCATED
THING.
JUST TO RESPOND QUICKLY TO THE
SONY BETA MAX CASE, THAT WAS NOT
EVEN MENTIONED TODAY AND WASN'T
MENTIONED IN A.E.R.E.O.'S BRIEF
FOR GOOD REASON BECAUSE, AS YOU
POINT OUT, THIS IS ABOUT AN
INTERLOCKER MAKING MONEY OVER
THE AIR.
>> I THINK WE THINK ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF THE COPYRIGHT LAWS.
THE ESSENCE IS IF I SPEND THE
MONEY TO DEVELOP THE CONTENT AND
PRODUCE IT, ONE OF THE BUNDLES
OF RIGHT I HAVE IS TO DISTRIBUTE
IT IN THE WAY I SEE FIT.
I CAN THROW IT ON THE INTERNET,
PIPE IT INTO PEOPLE'S HOMES OVER
A COAXIAL CABLE, BUT THAT'S A
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT, AND IF
A.E.R.E.O. PREVAILS TODAY, THEN
WE ARE GOING TO FUNDAMENTALLY
CHANGE WHAT COPYRIGHT LAW IS
ABOUT.
THAT'S AN INTERESTING DEBATE, A
DEBATE FOR CONGRESS TO HAVE, NOT
THE COURT TRYING TO CHANGE WHAT
CONGRESS AUTHORIZED.
>> Brown: TELEVISION AND
BEYOND, CLOUD COMPUTING, OTHER
TECHNOLOGY.
>> FIRST THE TRANSCRIPT WILL
SHOW SONY BETA MAX WAS MENTIONED
SEVERAL TIMES.
BESIDES THAT.
THIS WILL AFFECT FUTURE
INNOVATION.
THE REASON THE SONY BETA MAX
CASE WAS IMPORTANT, THERE WOULD
BE NO PERSONAL D.V.D. RECORDER,
ND RESTRICTIONS ON A
WHOLE RANGE OF THINGS.
THE CONCERNS THE JUSTICES
IMPRESSED IS HOW COULD WE
POSSIBLY DO THIS AND NOT
ELIMINATE CLOUD COMPUTING AND
NOT ELIMINATE OTHER TECHNOLOGIES
COME ALONG.
PARSE THESE DEFINITIONS.
THE WORLD CHANGED IN 30 YEARS.
BROADCASTERS HAD 100%, NOW YET
THAN 7% BUT THEY HAVE FREE
SPECTRUM AND PROVIDE FREE
BROADCASTING.
THE SLAW NOT ON THEIR SIDE AS IT
STANDS NOW WITH THE PRECEDENT
AND STATUTE.
>> Brown: DECISION TO COME IN
A FEW MONTHS.
GARY SHAPIRO, NEAL KATYAL,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW, A STORY ON
THIS EARTH DAY THAT SEEMS LIFTED
FROM SCIENCE FICTION.
RESEARCHERS AND ENTREPRENEURS,
MANY IN CALIFORNIA, ARE TRYING
TO BRING BACK EXTINCT SPECIES.
SOME SCIENTISTS BELIEVE IT'S A
WAY TO CORRECT PAST MISTAKES,
AND EVEN HELP ENDANGERED
ANIMALS.
BUT JUST BECAUSE SCIENTISTS
MIGHT BE ABLE TO DO THIS, ARE
THEY CROSSING A LINE THEY
SHOULDN'T?
OUR COLLEAGUES AT PUBLIC TV
STATION K.Q.E.D. IN SAN
FRANCISCO EXPLORED THAT QUESTION
IN THIS STORY PRODUCED BY
GABRIELA QUIROS AND NARRATED BY
THUY VU.
>> I'LL BE RIGHT BACK.
>>> NO, NO!
>> Reporter: THE CLONED
DINOSAURS OF THE "JURASSIC PARK"
MOVIES CAPTURED VIEWERS'
IMAGINATIONS.
BUT 65 MILLION YEARS AFTER THEIR
EXTINCTION, THERE'S NO CHANCE
SCIENTISTS CAN BRING DINOSAURS
BACK, SAYS UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA, SANTA CRUZ,
BIOLOGIST BETH SHAPIRO.
>> JURASSIC PARK IS A FANTASY
AND ALWAYS WILL BE.
DINOSAURS ARE WAY TOO OLD TO
THINK THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO RECOVER GENETIC
MATERIAL.
>> Reporter: INSTEAD, SCIENTISTS
ARE FOCUSING ON SPECIES THAT
WENT EXTINCT MORE RECENTLY, FOR
WHICH D.N.A. STILL EXISTS.
>> Reporter: RESEARCHERS HAVE
ALREADY REVIVED ONE EXTINCT
ANIMAL.
THE LAST OF A TYPE OF MOUNTAIN
GOAT WAS CLONED IN SPAIN IN
2003.
BUT THE CLONE ONLY LIVED A FEW
MINUTES.
HERE IN THE U.S., GEORGE CHURCH,
FROM HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL, IS
ENGINEERING ELEPHANT CELLS WITH
THICKER HAIR AND A FATTY LAYER,
TO MAKE THEM MORE LIKE WOOLLY
MAMMOTHS.
HIS HOPE IS THAT THESE NEW
MAMMOTHS COULD HELP KEEP THE
ARCTIC FROM MELTING.
SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THAT GRAZING
BY HERBIVORES LIKE MAMMOTHS
STRENGTHENED THE GRASS THAT GREW
ON TOP OF THE PERMAFROST AND
PROTECTED IT FROM THE SUN.
>> THE MAMMOTHS MAY HAVE HAD A
BIG ROLE IN MAINTAINING THE
GRASS  THAT STABILIZED THE ICE,
WHICH CONTAINS MORE CARBON IN
IT, AS IN GLOBAL-WARMING CARBON,
THAN ALL THE RAINFORESTS PUT
TOGETHER TIMES TWO.
>> Reporter: TO TURN ELEPHANTS
INTO WOOLLY MAMMOTHS, CHURCH IS
USING A NEW TOOL THAT ALLOWS HIM
TO INSERT GENES INTO THE
ELEPHANT GENOME.
>> IT'S LIKE VERY PRECISE
SCISSORS THAT ALLOW YOU TO CUT
AND SPLICE WITH UNPRECEDENTED
ACCURACY AND EASE OF USE.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE ETHICAL
QUESTION RAISED BY THE USE OF
ELEPHANTS, WHICH ARE ENDANGERED,
SCIENTISTS ARE ALREADY
INTERESTED IN USING THE
TECHNOLOGY TO BRING BACK OTHER
EXTINCT ANIMALS.
ONE OF THEM IS THE PASSENGER
PIGEON.
>> IN THE EARLY 1800'S, THERE
WERE FIVE BILLION OF THESE
BIRDS, JUST IN THE UNITED
STATES.
WITHIN THE SPAN OF ABOUT 50ARS,.
>> Reporter: AT U.C. SANTA CRUZ,
27-YEAR-OLD BEN NOVAK IS WORKING
TO "DE-EXTINCT" WHAT WAS ONCE
THE MOST ABUNDANT BIRD IN THE
WORLD.
>> IT OPENS THE DOOR TO THIS
BRAND NEW FUTURE OF
CONSERVATION, IN WHICH WE CAN
FINALLY SHIFT GEARS FROM
THINKING THAT WE'RE LOSING LIFE
ON THIS PLANET TO THE FACT THAT
WE ARE ACTUALLY GAINING IT BACK.
>> Reporter: NOT TO BE CONFUSED
WITH DOMESTICATED CARRIER
PIGEONS, PASSENGER PIGEONS WERE
WILD BIRDS THAT MIGRATED THROUGH
THE EASTERN AND CENTRAL U.S. AND
CANADA.
>> YOU HAD THESE GIANT FLOCKS OF
BIRDS SO DENSE THAT WITH A
SINGLE SHOT YOU COULD TAKE DOWN
DOZENS OF THEM.
>> Reporter: SHIPPED BY THE
TRAINLOADS TO FEED HUNGRY
CITIES, THE PASSENGER PIGEON
WENT EXTINCT IN 1914, WHEN THE
LAST ONE DIED AT THE CINCINNATI
ZOO.
NOVAK PLANS TO GENETICALLY
ENGINEER ITS CLOSEST RELATIVE,
THE BAND-TAILED PIGEON.
HE WOULD INSERT GENES HE
OBTAINED FROM PASSENGER PIGEON
MUSEUM SPECIMENS.
THIS IS A PAINSTAKING PROCESS,
AS DNA IS DEGRADED AND IT'S HARD
TO IDENTIFY WHAT GENES DO WHAT.
NOVAK WOULD LIKE TO REPLACE
BAND-TAILED PIGEONS' SQUARE
TAILS WITH THE LONG TAIL AND
SWIFT WINGS THAT ALLOWED
PASSENGER PIGEONS TO FLY AT 60
MILES PER HOUR.
>> HEY BEN.
>> HEY.
>> HOW ARE YOU DOING?
>> Reporter: RYAN PHELAN AND
STEWART BRAND'S NON-PROFIT,
'REVIVE AND RESTORE,' IN
SAUSALITO, CALIFORNIA, IS
FUNDING NOVAK'S WORK.
>> HAVE YOU SEEN THIS COOL
THING?
>> WELL, ACCORDING TO AMAZON,
IT'S NOT PUBLISHED YET.
>> Reporter: BRAND IS BEST KNOWN
FOR HIS WHOLE EARTH CATALOG.
STARTED IN 1968, IT ENCOURAGED
READERS TO LIVE IN TUNE WITH
NATURE.
TODAY, BRAND HOPES TO EXCITE A
NEW GENERATION THROUGH DE-
EXTINCTION.
>> DO YOU WANT EXTINCT SPECIES
BACK?
DO YOU WANT EXTINCT SPECIES
>> THAT A HUGE POPULATION COULD
BACK?
JUST GO TO ZERO, THAT WAS THE
>> THAT A HUGE POPULATION COULD
BEGINNING OF TAKING EXTINCTION
JUST GO TO ZERO, THAT WAS THE
SERIOUSLY.
BEGINNING OF TAKING EXTINCTION
AND SO TO GO BACK TO THAT
SERIOUSLY.
ORIGINAL MISTAKE OR CRIME, AND
AND SO TO GO BACK TO THAT
TRY TO UNDO IT, THERE MIGHT BE
ORIGINAL MISTAKE OR CRIME, AND
SOME REDEMPTION IN THAT.
TRY TO UNDO IT, THERE MIGHT BE
>> THAT, TO ME, IS THE WRONG
SOME REDEMPTION IN THAT.
ATTITUDE.
>> THAT, TO ME, IS THE WRONG
>> Reporter: BIOLOGIST JIM
ATTITUDE.
PATTON, AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
>> Reporter: BIOLOGIST JIM
CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, DOESN'T
PATTON, AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
SHARE BRAND'S ENTHUSIASM.
CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, DOESN'T
>> WE'RE LOST UNLESS WE REALIZE
SHARE BRAND'S ENTHUSIASM.
THAT WE'RE JUST A PART OF THIS
>> WE'RE LOST UNLESS WE REALIZE
INTRICATE WEB.
THAT WE'RE JUST A PART OF THIS
AND WE OUGHT TO BRING SPECIES
INTRICATE WEB.
BACK IF THEY CAN HELP MAINTAIN
AND WE OUGHT TO BRING SPECIES
THAT WEB.
BACK IF THEY CAN HELP MAINTAIN
BUT NOT BECAUSE IT MAKES US FEEL
THAT WEB.
BETTER AND SLEEP BETTER AT
BUT NOT BECAUSE IT MAKES US FEEL
NIGHT.
BETTER AND SLEEP BETTER AT
>> Reporter: PHELAN AND BRAND
NIGHT.
ESTIMATE IT'LL TAKE FIVE TO 50
>> Reporter: PHELAN AND BRAND
MILLION DOLLARS TO BRING BACK
ESTIMATE IT'LL TAKE FIVE TO 50
THE PASSENGER PIGEON.
MILLION DOLLARS TO BRING BACK
>> WHERE THE MONEY TENDS TO BE
THE PASSENGER PIGEON.
COMING IN IS FROM PEOPLE IN HIGH
>> WHERE THE MONEY TENDS TO BE
TECH.
COMING IN IS FROM PEOPLE IN HIGH
THEY LIKE BEING ON CUTTING
TECH.
EDGES, AND THIS IS ONE.
THEY LIKE BEING ON CUTTING
>> Reporter: BRAND BELIEVES
EDGES, AND THIS IS ONE.
PASSENGER PIGEONS COULD HELP
>> Reporter: BRAND BELIEVES
RESTORE THE EAST COAST'S
PASSENGER PIGEONS COULD HELP
FORESTS, BY SPREADING SEEDS
RESTORE THE EAST COAST'S
AROUND.
FORESTS, BY SPREADING SEEDS
BUT THE PIGEONS COULD END UP IN
AROUND.
CONFLICT WITH HUMANS ONCE AGAIN,
BUT THE PIGEONS COULD END UP IN
ESPECIALLY IF THEY WERE LISTED
CONFLICT WITH HUMANS ONCE AGAIN,
UNDER THE ENDANGERED SPECIES
ESPECIALLY IF THEY WERE LISTED
ACT.
UNDER THE ENDANGERED SPECIES
>> IF IT'S AN ENDANGERED
ACT.
SPECIES, THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN,
>> IF IT'S AN ENDANGERED
ALL OF THE FOREST HABITAT WHERE
SPECIES, THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN,
IT GOES INTO WILL BE OFF-LIMITS
ALL OF THE FOREST HABITAT WHERE
TO HUNTING AND HIKING, AND
IT GOES INTO WILL BE OFF-LIMITS
BIKING.
TO HUNTING AND HIKING, AND
>> WILL THE PEOPLE IN THE EAST
BIKING.
COAST, BE WILLING TO PUT UP WITH
>> WILL THE PEOPLE IN THE EAST
FLOCKS OF THOUSANDS OF PIGEONS
COAST, BE WILLING TO PUT UP WITH
DEFECATING ALL OVER EVERYTHING?
FLOCKS OF THOUSANDS OF PIGEONS
>> Reporter: AND BRAND
DEFECATING ALL OVER EVERYTHING?
RECOGNIZES THAT MUCH OF THE
>> Reporter: AND BRAND
SCIENCE IS STILL UNKNOWN.
RECOGNIZES THAT MUCH OF THE
>> IF YOU TURN A BAND-TAILED
SCIENCE IS STILL UNKNOWN.
PIGEON INTO A PASSENGER PIGEON,
>> IF YOU TURN A BAND-TAILED
IS IT REALLY A PASSENGER PIGEON,
PIGEON INTO A PASSENGER PIGEON,
OR IS IT JUST SOME WEIRD KIND OF
IS IT REALLY A PASSENGER PIGEON,
CHIMERA OR HYBRID OR WHAT?
OR IS IT JUST SOME WEIRD KIND OF
AND THE ANSWER IS WE DON'T KNOW
CHIMERA OR HYBRID OR WHAT?
YET.
AND THE ANSWER IS WE DON'T KNOW
AND YOU WON'T REALLY KNOW UNTIL
YET.
YOU TRY IT.
AND YOU WON'T REALLY KNOW UNTIL
>> Reporter: THE ENTERPRISE OF
YOU TRY IT.
REVIVING DISAPPEARED SPECIES IS
>> Reporter: THE ENTERPRISE OF
DRIVEN, AT LEAST IN PART, BY THE
REVIVING DISAPPEARED SPECIES IS
INCREASING EXTINCTION RATE THAT
DRIVEN, AT LEAST IN PART, BY THE
SCIENTISTS HAVE OBSERVED IN THE
INCREASING EXTINCTION RATE THAT
PAST 500 YEARS.
SCIENTISTS HAVE OBSERVED IN THE
AT SAN FRANCISCO'S CALIFORNIA
PAST 500 YEARS.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, BIOLOGIST
AT SAN FRANCISCO'S CALIFORNIA
JACK DUMBACHER GUARDS THE
ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, BIOLOGIST
REMNANTS OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.
JACK DUMBACHER GUARDS THE
>> THERE ARE ACTUALLY ONLY TWO
REMNANTS OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.
KEYS TO THIS CASE.
>> THERE ARE ACTUALLY ONLY TWO
I HAVE ONE AND THE COLLECTION
KEYS TO THIS CASE.
MANAGER HAS THE OTHER.
I HAVE ONE AND THE COLLECTION
>> HUMANS ARE THE REASON WHY
MANAGER HAS THE OTHER.
SPECIES ARE GOING EXTINCT AT A
>> HUMANS ARE THE REASON WHY
HIGHER RATE.
SPECIES ARE GOING EXTINCT AT A
HUMAN POPULATION SIZES ARE SO
HIGHER RATE.
BIG THAT WE'RE HAVING A HUGE
HUMAN POPULATION SIZES ARE SO
IMPACT, DESTROYING HAT
BIG THAT WE'RE HAVING A HUGE
CONVERTING HABITAT FROM IT'S
IMPACT, DESTROYING HAT
NATURAL FORM INTO AGRICULTURE,
CONVERTING HABITAT FROM IT'S
TO CITIES, TO OTHER THINGS THAT
NATURAL FORM INTO AGRICULTURE,
WE USE.
TO CITIES, TO OTHER THINGS THAT
>> Reporter: CLIMATE CHANGE IS
WE USE.
MAKING THINGS WORSE, BY TURNING
>> Reporter: CLIMATE CHANGE IS
THE OCEANS INHOSPITABLE TO CORAL
MAKING THINGS WORSE, BY TURNING
REEFS, FOR EXAMPLE.
THE OCEANS INHOSPITABLE TO CORAL
SOME SCIENTISTS ESTIMATE THAT IF
REEFS, FOR EXAMPLE.
TEMPERATURES CONTINUE TO CLIMB,
SOME SCIENTISTS ESTIMATE THAT IF
THEY COULD CONTRIBUTE TO THE
TEMPERATURES CONTINUE TO CLIMB,
DISAPPEARANCE OF HALF THE
THEY COULD CONTRIBUTE TO THE
WORLD'S SPEC
DISAPPEARANCE OF HALF THE
>> IF YOU'VE GOT SOME ECOSYSTEM
WORLD'S SPEC
THAT WE KNOW IS COLLAPSING
>> IF YOU'VE GOT SOME ECOSYSTEM
BECAUSE WE'VE LOST SOME KEY
THAT WE KNOW IS COLLAPSING
ECOSYSTEM COMPONENT, AND WE CAN
BECAUSE WE'VE LOST SOME KEY
DE-EXTINCT IT, WHY WOULDN'T WE
ECOSYSTEM COMPONENT, AND WE CAN
DO THAT?
DE-EXTINCT IT, WHY WOULDN'T WE
>> Reporter: BUT MANY BIOLOGISTS
DO THAT?
BELIEVE THAT EFFORTS SHOULD
>> Reporter: BUT MANY BIOLOGISTS
FOCUS ON ENDANGERED, RATHER THAN
BELIEVE THAT EFFORTS SHOULD
EXTINCT, SPECIES.
FOCUS ON ENDANGERED, RATHER THAN
>> IT COMES DOWN HUGELY TO
EXTINCT, SPECIES.
PRIORITIES.
>> IT COMES DOWN HUGELY TO
>> IF WE HAVE THESE TECHNOLOGIES
PRIORITIES.
AND THESE TECHNOLOGIES CAN BE
>> IF WE HAVE THESE TECHNOLOGIES
BROUGHT TO BEAR TO HELP PRESERVE
AND THESE TECHNOLOGIES CAN BE
WHAT IS ALREADY HERE, THAT'S
BROUGHT TO BEAR TO HELP PRESERVE
WHERE I WOULD PUT MY RESOURCES.
WHAT IS ALREADY HERE, THAT'S
>> Reporter: SCIENTISTS SAY THE
WHERE I WOULD PUT MY RESOURCES.
NEED FOR THESE TOOLS IS GREAT.
>> Reporter: SCIENTISTS SAY THE
AT THE SAN DIEGO ZOO'S SAFARI
NEED FOR THESE TOOLS IS GREAT.
PARK, IN ESCONDIDO, CALIFORNIA,
AT THE SAN DIEGO ZOO'S SAFARI
"NOLA" AND "ANGIE" ARE TWO OF
PARK, IN ESCONDIDO, CALIFORNIA,
ONLY SEVEN NORTHERN WHITE RHINOS
"NOLA" AND "ANGIE" ARE TWO OF
LEFT IN THE WORLD.
ONLY SEVEN NORTHERN WHITE RHINOS
POACHED FOR THEIR HORNS, THE
LEFT IN THE WORLD.
RHINOS ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE
POACHED FOR THEIR HORNS, THE
DISAPPEARED IN THE WILD AROUND
RHINOS ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE
2006.
DISAPPEARED IN THE WILD AROUND
AT 40, THE PARK'S TWO RHINOS
2006.
HAVE ENDED THEIR BABY-MAKING
AT 40, THE PARK'S TWO RHINOS
YEARS, AND IT'S ALSO UNLIKELY
HAVE ENDED THEIR BABY-MAKING
THAT THE OTHER FIVE WILL
YEARS, AND IT'S ALSO UNLIKELY
REPRODUCE EITHER, SAYS ZOO
THAT THE OTHER FIVE WILL
GENETICIST OLIVER RYDER.
REPRODUCE EITHER, SAYS ZOO
>> WITHOUT SOME EXTRAORDINARY
GENETICIST OLIVER RYDER.
INTERVENTION, NORTHERN WHITE
>> WITHOUT SOME EXTRAORDINARY
RHINOS ARE DOOMED.
INTERVENTION, NORTHERN WHITE
>> Reporter: THOSE EXTRAORDINARY
RHINOS ARE DOOMED.
MEASURES BEGIN WITH RHINO CELLS
>> Reporter: THOSE EXTRAORDINARY
STORED AT MINUS-250 DEGREES AT
MEASURES BEGIN WITH RHINO CELLS
THE SAN DIEGO ZOO'S "FROZEN
STORED AT MINUS-250 DEGREES AT
ZOO."
THE SAN DIEGO ZOO'S "FROZEN
SCIENTISTS HAVE COLLECTED CELLS
ZOO."
FROM 12 NORTHERN WHITE RHINOS.
SCIENTISTS HAVE COLLECTED CELLS
USING STEM CELL TECHNIQUES AND
FROM 12 NORTHERN WHITE RHINOS.
IN VITRO FERTILIZATION, THEY
USING STEM CELL TECHNIQUES AND
HOPE TO INCREASE THE RHINO
IN VITRO FERTILIZATION, THEY
POPULATION  AND ITS GENETIC
HOPE TO INCREASE THE RHINO
DIVERSITY.
POPULATION  AND ITS GENETIC
THE FROZEN ZOO HOLDS THE CELLS
DIVERSITY.
OF 1,000 DIFFERENT SPECIES, MANY
THE FROZEN ZOO HOLDS THE CELLS
OF THEM ENDANGERED.
OF 1,000 DIFFERENT SPECIES, MANY
WITH NEW TECHNOLOGIES, THESE
OF THEM ENDANGERED.
CELLS COULD ONE DAY BECOME A
WITH NEW TECHNOLOGIES, THESE
LIFELINE.
CELLS COULD ONE DAY BECOME A
>> Woodruff: THERE'S MORE ON OUR
LIFELINE.
WEB SITE, WATCH K.Q.E.D.'S FULL
>> Woodruff: THERE'S MORE ON OUR
HALF-HOUR DOCUMENTARY
WEB SITE, WATCH K.Q.E.D.'S FULL
"REAWAKENING EXTINCT SPECIES."
HALF-HOUR DOCUMENTARY
THAT'S PART OF NEWSHOUR'S
"REAWAKENING EXTINCT SPECIES."
EXTINCTION WEEK ONLINE.
>> Ifill: VICE PRESIDENT JOE
BIDEN MET WITH UKRAINE'S LEADERS
TOARNING
TO RUSSIA.
>> WE HAVE HEARD A LOT FROM
RUSSIAN OFFICIALS IN THE PAST
FEW DAYS, BUT NOW IT'S TIME FOR
RUSSIA TO STOP TALKING AND START
ACTING.
>> Ifill: TODAY, IT WAS THE VICE
PRESIDENT TALKING, ON THE GROUND
IN KIEV, LEADING A U.S.
CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION IN A
SHOW OF SOLIDARITY WITH
UKRAINE'S EMBATTLED, INTERIM
GOVERNMENT.
HE SAID IT'S PAST TIME FOR
RUSSIA TO LIVE UP TO THE
AGREEMENT STRUCK IN GENEVA LAST
WEEK TO LOWER TENSIONS. COMMITM,
THEY SHOULD BE FULFILLED.
WE NEED TO SEE THESE KINDS OF
CONCRETE STEPS, WE NEED TO SEE
THEM WITHOUT DELAY.
WE WILL NOT ALLOW THIS TO BECOME
AN OPEN-ENDED PROCESS.
TIME IS SHORT IN WHICH TO MAKE
PROGRESS.
>> Ifill: UKRAINE'S PRIME
MINISTER, ARSENIY YATSENYUK, WAS
MORE POINTED IN CHALLENGING
MOSCOW:
>> ( translated ): WE DEMAND
ONLY ONE THING, FULFIL YOUR
INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.
THEY SHOULD NOT BEHAVE AS
GANGSTERS IN THE MODERN CENTURY.
>> Ifill: PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS IN EASTERN UKRAINIAN
CITIES CONTINUED TO DEFY THE
GENEVA ACCORD, CALLING FOR AN
END TO THEIR OCCUPATION OF
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
AN OFFICIAL OF THE SELF-
PROCLAIMED "DONETSK REPUBLIC"
SAID NEGOTIATIONS ARE UNDER WAY
WITH INTERNATIONAL MEDIATORS.
>> AT THE MOMENT WE'VE COME TO
AN AGREEMENT TO VACATE THE
SESSION HALL AND TWO FLOORS OF
THE REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE
BUILDING.
I DON'T KNOW THE DETAILS, BUT
WE'RE NOW NEGOTIATING WITH THE
OFFICIALS IN ORDER TO PROVIDE
CONDITIONS FOR THEM TO RENEW
THEIR WORK.
>>> Ifill: BUT UKRAINE'S ACTING
PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THE
RESUMPTION OF "ANTI-TERRORIST"
OPERATIONS AGAINST THE
SEPARATISTS, AS A TOP SECURITY
OFFICIAL WARNED THE GOVERNMENT
MAY HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO USE
FORCE.
>> ( translated ): SUCH ACTIONS
AND CRIMES IN EASTERN UKRAINE
BY ARMED SABOTEURS IN OUR
OPINION, CYNICALLY UNDERMINES
THE QUADRILATERAL AGREEMENTS
SIGNED IN GENEVA.
WE RETAIN OUR RIGHT TO REACT
ADEQUATELY TO SUCH CRIMES.
>> Ifill: TENSIONS WERE
ESPECIALLY HIGH IN SLOVIANSK,
WHERE THREE MEN WERE SHOT
SUNDAY, UNDER DISPUTED
CIRCUMSTANCES, AT A PRO-RUSSIAN
CHECKPOINT.
THEY WERE LAID TO REST TODAY.
A SHORT TIME LATER CAME REPORTS
THAT A UKRAINIAN MILITARY
AIRCRAFT WAS FIRED ON WHILE
OVER-FLYING THE CITY.
BACK IN KIEV, VICE PRESIDENT
BIDDD
UKRAINE'S PARLIAMENT, THE RADA,
AND SAID NEXT MONTH'S
PRESIDENTIAL VOTE IS PERHAPS THE
MOST IMPORTANT ELECTION IN
UKRAINIAN HISTORY.
HE ALSO ANNOUNCED AN ADDITIONAL
$50 MILLION IN U.S. AID, PART OF
WHICH GOES TO REDUCE RELIANCE ON
RUSSIAN ENERGY SOURCES.
>> WE CAN HELP IN STABILIZING
AND STRENGTHENING UKRAINE'S
ECONOMY BY HELPING YOU WITHSTAND
THE UNFAIR ECONOMIC PRESSURE
BEING THRUST UPON YOU.
>> Ifill: THE WEST HAS RATCHETED
UP THE ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON
RUSSIA AFTER ITS ANNEXATION OF
CRIMEA.
TODAY, RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER
DMITRY MEDVEDEV WARNED MOSCOW
WILL NOT LET THE SANCTIONS GO
UNCHALLENGED.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL SHOW
OUR TEETH IF IT IS NECESSARY AND
WITHIN THE LAW, WE WILL APPEAL
TO COURTS AND OTHER
INSTITUTIONS, INCLUDING THE
W.T.O. DISPUTE SETTLEMENT BODY.
THE ECONOMY IS GLOBAL, BUT
COMPANIES HAVE TO OPERATE BY
CONDITIONS OF COMPETITION AND
NOT BY THE POLITICALLY-MOTIVATED
ECONOMIC WAR.
>> Ifill: THE PRIME MINISTER
ADDED THAT HIS COUNTRY COULD
COUNTER SANCTIONS BY SHIFTING
ITS EXPORTS TO ASIAN MARKETS.
MEANWHILE, IN WASHINGTON,
PENTAGON SPOKESMAN JOHN KIRBY
ANNOUNCED 600 U.S. TROOPS ARE
BEING DEPLOYED FOR EXERCISES IN
FOUR EASTERN EUROPEAN AND BALTIC
N.A.T.O. STATES.
>> SINCE RUSSIA'S AGGRESSION IN
UKRAINE, WE'VE BEEN CONSTANTLY
LOOKING AT WAYS TO REASSURE OUR
ALLIES AND PARTNERS.
>> Ifill: AND THIS MORNING, THE
GUIDED MISSILE FRIGATE  U.S.S.
TAYLOR, MADE ITS WAY THROUGH THE
BOSPHORUS STRAITS ON ITS WAY
INTO THE BLACK SEA, WHICH
TOUCHES THE COASTLINES OF
UKRAINE, RUSSIA AND CRIMEA.
>> Woodruff: THEIR NAME MEANS
"WESTERN EDUCATION IS SIN" AND
IN THE PAST WEEK THEY'VE SOWN
TERROR ACROSS NIGERIA.
THE RADICAL ISLAMIC GROUP BOKO
HARAM' PLANTED A BOMB AT A BUS
STATION IN THE CAPITAL CITY OF
ABUJA ON APRIL 14th, KILLING AT
LEAST 70 PEOPLE.
THAT SAME DAY, IT'S BELIEVED
THAT THEY KIDNAPPED MORE THAN
200 GIRLS FROM A SCHOOL IN
NORTHERN NIGERIA, TAKING THEM
DEEP INTO A FOREST.
THE STUDENTS' FATE AND CONDITION
ARE UNKNOWN.
A SHORT TIME AGO I SPOKE VIA
SKYPE TO FREELANCE REPORTER
HEATHER MURDOCK, WHO IS COVERING
THE STORY FOR THE CHRISTIAN
SCIENCE MONITOR.
SHE WAS IN LAGOS, NIGERIA.
SOME OF THE IMAGES SHOWN DURING
THE INTERVIEW MAY BE DISTURBING.
HEATHER MURDOCH, THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT IS THE LATEST
ON THE WHEREABOUTS OF THESE
SCHOOL GIRLS?
WELL, YESTERDAY, THE GOVERNOR
VISITED THE TOWN WHERE THE GIRLS
WERE ABDUCTED FROM AND MORE
INFORMATION CAME TO LIGHT.
THEY DISCOVERED IT WAS ACTUALLY
234 GIRLS KIDNAPPED AS OPPOSED
TO THE 129 THEY ORIGINALLY SAID.
ALSO, THEY ANNOUNCED 190 OF THE
GIRLS ARE STILL MISSING AND NONE
HAVE BEEN FREED.
THE ONES THAT ESCAPED, 43,
ESCAPED ON THEIR OWN WHILE THEY
WERE TAKEN OR IN THE DAYS THAT
FOLLOWED.
>> Reporter: SO IT'S TAKEN A
WEEK TO FIGURE OUT HOW MANY
GIRLS WERE KIDNAPPED.
WHAT ABOUT THE PARENTS AND THE
POLICE IN THE AREA?
WHAT HAVE THEY BEEN DOING?
>> PARENTS SAY THE POLICE AND
SOLDIERS HAVE BEEN SEARCHING FOR
THEM.
VIGILANTE GROUPS HAVE FORMED.
THEY'RE SEARCHING THE BUSH,
APPARENTLY HAVE HUNTERS AND
FARMERS SEARCHING.
IS SO LARGE AND
SO DANGEROUS THAT THEY SAY THEY
JUST HAVEN'T FOUND THEM YET.
THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN RUMORS OF
SOME GIRLS SPOTTED COLLECTING
WATER BUT THE LOCAL PEOPLE TOLD
THE GROUPS THAT HEARD THE RUMORS
THAT THEY WENT TO TRY TO FIND
THE GIRLS IN THE AREA, THEY
PROBABLY WOULD BE KILLED.
>> Woodruff: HAS BOKO HARAM
SAID THEY'VE DONE THIS AND WHY
THEY'VE TAKEN THE SCHOOL GIRLS?
>> NO.
LAST WEEK, THE GUY WHO SAYS HE'S
THE LEADER OF THE BOKO HARAM PUT
OUT A VIDEO TAKING CREDIT FOR
THE BOMBING IN ABUJA ON THE SAME
DAY THE GIRLS WERE TAKEN.
THEY SAID NOTHING ABOUT TAKING
THE GIRLS.
SOME PEOPLE STILL BELIEVE IT WAS
BOKO HARAM THAT DID THIS BECAUSE
BOKO HARAM IS A FACTIOUS GROUP
AND WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT ITS
STRUCTURE, THE PART OF BOKO
HARAM RULED BY THE LEADER WHO
SAID HE'S IN THE CAPITAL DID IN
FACT DO THIS BOMBING IN THE
CAPITAL AND THE OTHER GROUP OF
PEOPLE THAT CALL THEMSELVES BOKO
HARAM THAT MAY OR MAY NOT BE
DIRECTEDLY CONNECTED STOLE THE
GIRLS.
>> Woodruff: WHY ISN'T THE
GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA ABLE TO
GET THEM UNDER CONTROL AND GO
AFTER THEM?
>> THIS IS THE QUESTION EVERYONE
IN NIGERIA IS ASKING.
THEY'VE HAD THREE STATES UNDER
EMERGENCY RULE FOR ONE YEAR,
NOW, AND THE VIOLENCE JUST KEEPS
GETTING WORSE.
THIS YEAR, I'VE HEARD THAT MORE
THAN 1,500 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN
THE FIRST THREE MONTHS OF THIS
YEAR ALONE, AND THE GOVERNMENT
SAYS THEY ARE USING TALL
RESOURCES THEY CAN AND THEY
CAN'T SLOW DOWN THIS GROUP.
>> Woodruff: HOW WELL ARMED IS
THIS GROUP, BOKO HARAM, SUPPOSED
TO BE?
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THEY ARE
INCREASINGLY WELL-ARMED WITH
HEAVY ARTILLERY, TRUCKS, GUNS,
GRENADES, BOMBS, THEY HAVE PUT
OUT VIDEOS RECENTLY SHOWING
MILITANTS ON TRUCKS IN THE
DOZENS OF MILITANTS IN EACH
TRUCK WITH MACHINE GUNS MOUNTED
ON THE TRUCKS ATTACKING A
MILITARY BASE.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, HEATHER,
WE KNOW THAT NIGERIA IS HOSTING
A WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM IN ABUJA,
THE CAPITAL CITY, IN THE NEXT
FEW WEEKS.
THERE MUST BE CONCERN -- OR IS
THERE CONCERN ABOUT SECURITY,
GIVEN WHAT BOKO HARAM IS ABLE TO
DO?
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT THE WORLD
ECONOMIC FORUM FOR AFRICA IS ON
THE THE OF THE MINDS OF SECURITY
OFFICIALS IN ABUJA BECAUSE
THERE'S GOING TO BE MORE THAN A
THOUSAND PEOPLE COMING HERE AND
A LOTTED OF HEADS OF STATE AND
WE JUST HAD AN ATTACK RIGHT
THERE.
BUT, OFFICIALLY, THEY SAY THEY
ARE READY AND THAT THEY HAVE
SECURED THE TOWNS, THAT THEY
WILL BEEF UP SECURITY EVEN MORE.
THEY HAVEN'T GIVE AN LOT OF
DETAILS ABOUT HOW THEY WOULD DO
THAT BUT THE GOVERNMENT OF
NIGERIA HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR THEY
PLAN TO GO AHEAD WITH THIS
CONFERENCE AND THEY DON'T EXPECT
ANY MORE VIOLENCE.
AT LEAST THAT'S WHAT THEY SAY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DID THE
GOVERNMENT SAY ABOUT BOKO HARAM?
>> WELL, I MEAN, IT'S OFFICIALLY
A TERRORIST GROUP IN NIGERIA AS
IS IN THE U.S., AND THEY SAY
REPEATEDLY THEY PLAN ON CRUSHING
BOKO HARAM WITHIN A FEW MONTHS.
THEY HAVE BEEN A LITTLE MORE
QUIET RECENTLY SINCE THE
VIOLENCE HAS GOTTEN WORSE.
THEY ALSO TALK ABOUT
NEGOTIATIONS, ALTHOUGH THERE
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE ANY MOVEMENT
IN THE NEGOTIATIONS RECENTLY,
AND THEY'VE ALSO TALKED RECENTLY
ABOUT TRYING TO SOLVE THE
PROBLEM WITH WHAT THEY CALL A
SOFTER APPROACH, LIKE PRISONS,
EDUCATION, AND ECONOMIC REFORM,
BUT WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY FRUITS
OF THAT EFFORT YET.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, ALMOST
200 SCHOOL GIRLS STILL MISSING.
WELL, HEATHER, WE THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE BATTLE OVER
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE MAY BE
AT A STALEMATE IN WASHINGTON,
D.C. RIGHT NOW, BUT IN
WASHINGTON STATE, THE FIGHT IS
STILL UNDERWAY.
OUR ECONOMICS REPORTER, PAUL
SOLMAN, HAS THE NEXT IN HIS
SERIES OF STORIES ON THAT
SUBJECT, THIS ONE ON JUST HOW
MUCH IT REALLY COSTS TO LIVE IN
A CITY LIKE SEATTLE.
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> Reporter: IN SEATTLE THIS
SPRING, RALLIES TO RAISE THE
MINIMUM WAGE BUT NOT THE
$10.10 DEBATED NATIONALLY.
HERE, THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT
$15 AN HOUR CITY-WIDE.
(CHANTING)
>> Reporter: 62% HIGHER THAN
THIS YEAR'S INFLATION INDEX
STATE MINIMUM WAGE OF 9. $9.32,
ALREADY HIGHEN THE NATION.
>> WALL STREET AND BIG BUSINESS
CRASHED THE ECONOMY.
THEY GOT BAILED OUT.
THEY'RE MAKING RECORD PROFITS.
THE WORKING PEOPLE ARE MAKING
POVERTY WAGES, LOW WAGES,
STUDENT DEBT.
WHAT'S OUR FUTURE?
>> Reporter: PHILLIP LOCKER
HELPED RUN THE SRI
TO THE SEATTLE CITY COUNCIL LAST
FALL ON A $15 AN HOUR MINIMUM
WAGE PLATFORM.
THE MAYOR AND 7 COUNCIL MEMBERS
SUPPORT THE PROPOSAL OF THEIR
UNAPOLOGETICALLY SOCIALIST
COLLEAGUE, AN ECONOMIST WHO
DONATWO-THIRDS OF HER
$120,000 A YEAR SALARY TO WHAT
SHE CALLS SOCIAL JUSTICE CAUSES.
>> THIS WILL ENERGIZE AND
EMPOWER WORKERS, RAISE THEIR
CONFIDENCE AND MORALE.
>> SOCIALISM, AFTER THE FALL OF
THE ASSOCIATE UNION, CHINA
BECOMING A PURELY CAPITALIST
COUNTRY, HUGO HAVING NOT
SUCCEEDED.
SOCIALISM, REALLY?
>> THE ONLY REASON YOU'RE
TALKING TO ME IS BECAUSE AN
OUT-AND-OUT SOCIALIST GOT
ELECTED IN A MAJOR CITY IN THE
UNITED STATES.
TIME FOR WORKING PEOPLE TO
REMOVE THE SHACKLES OFF AND
MARCH AHEAD.
(CHANTING)
>> Reporter: BUT WHY EXACTLY
15?
WELL, THAT'S WHAT THE UNIVERSITY
OF WASHINGTON RESEARCHERS FOUND
IS THE SELF-SUFFICIENCY WAGE IN
SEATTLE FOR AN ADULT WITH ONE
CHILD.
THE BARE MINIMUM, THAT IS, FOR
SURVIVAL WITHOUT PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE HELP.
UNION LEADER DAVID ROLF
CO-CHAIRS THE MINIMUM WAGE
COMMUNITY.
>> THERE IS A LOT OFENINGER IN
OUR COMMUNITY ABOUT WHAT'S
HAPPENED TO WAGES, NOT JUST
RECENTLY, BUT OVER 40 YEARS IN
AMERICA, THAT WE'VE SEEN
ESSENTIALLY ECONOMIC GROWTH
SINCE THE LATE 1970s,
UNACCOMPANIED BY WAGE GROWTH FOR
THE BOTTOM 90% OF WAGE EARNERS.
>> Reporter: IN STARK CONTRAST
OF WAGE GROWTH ALL AMERICANS SAW
FROM THE 1940s TO THE 1970s.
IF PAYCHECKS HAD KEPT PACE WITH
ECONOMIC GROWTH, SAYS RESEARCHER
LORIE --
>> THE MINIMUM WAGE WOULD BE
FROM $15 TO $22 AN HOUR
DEPENDING ON HOW YOU MEASURE IT.
>> Reporter: AFTER COLLEGE, I
DROVE A CAB, 1970, AT $3 AN HOUR
INCLUDING TIPS.
THAT'S SOMEWHERE BETWEEN $18 AND
$45 AN HOUR TODAY, ACCORDING TO
THE AUTHORITATIVE WEB SITE
"MEASURING WORTH," MORE THAN
MANY COLLEGE GRADS MAKE NOW.
>> SOME OF US WORK FULL TIME BUT
GET PAID $10 AN HOUR, SOME OF US
GET PAID MORE THAN $10 BUT ONLY
GET TO WORK 25 HOURS A WEEK.
MEET. WAY, IT'S HARD TO MAKE
>> Reporter: KAYLA NICHOLSON,
B.A. FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF
WASHINGTON, WORKS IN CHILDCARE,
SERVING THE KIDS OF LOW-WAGE
WORKERS.
>> I HAVE A THIRD GRADER WHO
MAKES DINNER FOR YOUNGER
BROTHERS EVERY NIGHT BECAUSE HIS
MOM IS AT WORK.
THESE ARE PEOPLE RECEIVING ALL
THE FEDERAL BENEFITS THEY'RE
ELIGIBLE FOR AND THE PARENTS ARE
STILL WORKING TWO JOBS AND JUST
NEVER GETTING AHEAD, NEVER
GETTING AHEAD.
AND WHAT REALLY BREAKS MY HEART
IS, YOU KNOW, I'M TRYING TO
MOTIVATE THE KIDS TO WORK HARD
AND DO WELL IN SCHOOL AND GET
GOOD GRADES, PROMISING THEM THAT
THERE'S A BETTER LIFE WAITING
FOR THEM IF THEY DO THAT, BUT I
DON'T KNOW THAT THERE IS.
>> THIS IBUSINESSES ARE OUTRAGED
WORKERS DEMAND $15.
>> Reporter: THIS BEING
PROGRESSIVE SEATTLE, WE FOUND
LITTLE OUTRAGE AMONG BUSINESS
OWNERS BUT AT A CITY COUNCIL
HEARING, PLENTY OF CONCERN.
>> WE WILL HAVE TO REDUCE OUR
HOURS.
THERE WILL BE 20 TO 30% FEWER
ENTRY-LEVEL JOBS.
>> MANY PEOPLE THAT OWN THEIR
BUSINESSES ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
SHUT DOWN.
>> YES, I'M FOR PAYING PEOPLE
MORE!
>> Reporter: EVEN SOME OF THE
WORKERS WERE SKEPTICS.
>> BUT IF IT'S GOING TO COST ME
MY JOB, HELL, NO.
>> Reporter: AGAIN, LORIE --
OVERWHELMINGLY OF THE
HUNDREDS OF STUDIES DONE ON
REAL-WORLD EXAMPLES FROM AROUND
THE COUNTRY, THERE'S NO IMPACT
ON EMPLOYMENT WHEN YOU MODESTLY
INCREASE THE MINIMUM WAGE.
>> Reporter: BUT THIS IS A
SIGNIFICANT INCREASE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
WHAT WE DON'T KNOW FROM THE
LITURE, BECAUSE THIS HASN'T
BEEN TRIED BEFORE, IS WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN YOU DO THAT.
>> Reporter: BUT WE DO KNOW,
AS ECON 101 TEACHES THAT, IF THE
COST OF LABOR RISES AND,
THEREFORE, SO DO PRICES, SOME
CUSTOMERS WILL BOLT.
>> I'M HAVING A HARD TIME
COMPETING AND GETTING WORK HERE
IF I HAVE TO PAY $15 AN HOUR.
>> Reporter: ESPECIALLY WHEN
THE COMPETITION IS IN LOW-WAGE
CLIMBS LIKE MEXICO OR CHINA,
SAYS JULIE HYATT, WHO OWNS
GLOBAL FULFILLMENT, A COMPANY
THAT ASSEMBLES PRINTED MATERIAL,
MUCH BY HAND.
>> WE'RE ALREADY NOT THE
CHEAPEST.
BEING IN SEATTLE MAKES US MORE
EXPENSIVE JUST TO START.
>> I'M IN THE MANUFACTURING
BUSINESS.
I UNDERSTAND THE SORT OF
VISCERAL FEAR THAT SOME OF THEM
FEEL ABOUT THIS CHANGE.
>> Reporter: SEATTLE
MULTI-MILLIONAIRE INVESTOR AND
ENTREPRENEUR HANAUER IS A LEADER
OF THE $15 WAGE MOVEMENT, STILL
HELPS HIS FAMILY ONE THE PILLOW
COMPANY --
>> WE HAVE FACTORIES THAT DO NOT
PAY $15.
IF MY COMPETITORS PAY $10 AND WE
PAY $15, WE'LL SURELY GO OUT OF
BUSINESS.
A GREAT CHALLENGE WE FACE IN THE
CITY OF RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
$15 IS PRECISELY THAT DYNAMIC.
>> Reporter: BUT LOOK, HE
SAYS, EVERY ECONOMIC DECISION
INVOLVES THAWEDOFFS.
BOILS DOWN -- TRADEOFFS.
BOILS DOWN THE WEIGHING COST
AGAINST BENEFITS.
>> IN THIS CASE THE BENEFITS
OVERWHELM THE COST.
WHEN WORKER COMPENSATION GOES
UP, EVERYONE BENEFITS BECAUSE
THOSE WORKERS BOTH BUY MORE
STUFF AND NEED LESS SERVICES
FROM TAXPAYERS.
>> Reporter: OR AS SEATTLE
WRITER DAVID GOLDSTEIN PUTS
IT --
>> SOME PEOPLE ARE WINNERS, SOME
ARE LOSERS.
WHAT YOU WANT IS A POLICY THAT
RAISES AS MANY PEOPLE UP AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Reporter: BUT WHAT ABOUT
THE LOSERS, ASKS JULIE HYATT?
>> THERE ARE PEOPLE NOW MAKING
MINIMUM WAGE WHO MAY HAVE A
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND, MAY NOT
HAVE A G.E.D.
WHERE ARE THEY GOING TO GO?
>> Reporter: WORST CASE, THEY
WIND UP EVEN MORE DEPENDENT ON
GOVERNMENT SERVICES OR
NON-PROFITS LIKE THE DOWNTOWN
EMERGENCY SERVICES CENTER.
A THIRD OF WHOSE 520 EMPLOYEES
MAKE NEAR THE CURRENT MINIMUM
WAGE.
A $15 MINIMUM WAGE WOULD COST
THE CENTER WELL OVER $1 MILLION,
AS DIRECTOR BILL HOBSON SAYS.
>> AN ORGANIZATION SUCH AS THIS
ONE WOULD INVARIABLY BE
TRANSLATED INTO REDUCTIONS IN
SERVICE.
THERE WILL BE MORE DISABLED,
HOMELESS PEOPLE ON THE STREET,
IN AND OUT OF JAILS, OUT OF
HOSPITAL EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS
(CHANTING)
>> Reporter: AND, YET, IN THE
END, HOBSON SUPPORTS $15 AN HOUR
BECAUSE THE BENEFITS OUTWEIGH
THE COSTS, HE THINKS.
>> BIG BUSINESS, OIL INDUSTRIES,
MAKE NO EXCEPTIONS, WILL FACE
THE $15 AN HOUR ON JANUARY 1,
2015, TO ALL ITS WORKERS!
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Reporter: WELL, NOT SO
FAST.
EVEN SOCIALIST SEEMS WILLING TO
OFFER SMALL BUSINESSES AND
NON-PROFITS A THREE-YEAR
PHASE-IN.
SO WILL THE $15 MINIMUM WAGE
HAPPEN HERE?
THAT'S NOT .
>> THAT'S NOT A NUMBER YOU CAN
BACK DOWN FROM ANYMORE.
(CHANTING)
>> WHETHER IT SURVIVES AT THE
BALLOT AFTER THE BUSINESS
COMMUNITY SPENDS A FEW MILLION
DOLLARS TO TRY TO DEFEAT IT,
THAT'S ANOTHER QUESTION.
>> Reporter: WE WILL KEEP YOU
POSTED.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
RARE AND GRIPPING LOOK AT LIFE
IN SOLITARY CONFINEMENT.
MORE THAN 40 STATES USE IT FOR
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF INMATES
AROUND THE COUNTRY, WHERE THEY
CAN SPEND UP TO 23 HOURS A DAY
IN A TINY, SINGLE-BED CELL.
BUT A NUMBER OF STATES ARE
BEGINNING TO TAKE A SECOND LOOK
AT THE PRACTICE, AND WHETHER
IT'S TOO PUNITIVE OR EVEN
EFFECTIVE.
TONIGHT'S EPISODE OF FRONTLINE,
THE FIRST OF A TWO-PART SERIES,
TITLED "LOCKED UP IN AMERICA,"
SPENDS THE ENTIRE HOUR INSIDE
THE STATE PRISON IN MAINE, AND
LOOKS AT THE SIGNIFICANT
CHALLENGES TRYING TO MAKE A
CHANGE.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
A NOTE: IT, LIKE THE
DOCUMENTARY, CONTAINS SOME
DISTURBING IMAGES THAT START
WITH A FRIDAY NIGHT IN SOLITARY.
(POUNDING AND YELLING)
>> KEEP THAT DOWN!
>> Narrator: FRIDAY NIGHT IN
THE SEGREGATION UNIT AT THE
MAINE STATE PRISON.
ALL THE INMATES HERE ARE IN
SOLITARY CONFINEMENT.
ALMOST EVERY DAY, THE PRISONERS
ACT OUT AGAINST THE OFFICERS
WHO WORK THE UNIT.
THEY FLOOD THEIR CELLS.
THEY POUR BODILY FLUIDS UNDER
THEIR DOORS.
AND THEY CUT THEMSELVES
WITH RAZOR BLADES.
>> KIDD!
(KNOCKING)
KIDD, YOU NEED TO CUFF UP.
YOU MIGHT AS WELL TALK TO ME NOW
BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING TO TALK TO
ME SOONER THAN LATER.
I HAVE THREE WINDOWS COVERED
RIGHT NOW, AND ONE OF THEM
APPEARS TO BE SELF-ABUSIVE.
ATTEMPTED TO LOOK THROUGH THE
TRAY SLOT TO SEE IF I COULD GET
A VISUAL ON HIM, AND HE'S GOT IT
COVERED WITH A MATTRESS.
IF I CAN'T SEE HIM FROM THE BACK
WINDOW, I'M GONNA HAVE TO GO IN
AND TAKE HIM OUT FOR HIS OWN
SAFETY.
>> Narrator: INMATES ARE
FORBIDDEN FROM COVERING THEIR
WINDOWS IN THE SOLITARY UNIT.
THEY COULD BE BLEEDING TO DEATH,
OR IT COULD BE A TRICK TO LURE
THE OFFICERS IN.
>> HE'S GOT IT ALL COVERED.
SO NOW WE HAVE TO PULL HIM OUT.
>> OKAY GENTS, WHENEVER YOU'RE
READY TO ROCK AND ROLL.
>> 6/11, A2, DO YOU HAVE A
LARGE BOX?
>> IF I SAY "GO," RIP THAT DOOR
OPEN SO THESE MEN CAN GO IN.
IF I SAY "HOLD," JUST HOLD IT
WITH A CRACK.
>> ANY QUESTIONS AT THIS TIME?
>> I THINK WE'RE READY TO GO IN
AND DO A CELL EXTRACTION.
(BANGING)
(SHOUTING)
>> Narrator: THE OFFICERS
SOMETIMES HAVE TO USE MACE
ON INMATES WHO WON'T COMPLY.
( BANGING )
>> MONSTERS!
THIS IS WHAT THEY CREATE IN
HERE: MONSTERS.
AND THEN THEY DROP YOU INTO
SOCIETY AND TELL YOU, "GO
AHEAD, BE A GOOD BOY."
YOU CAN'T CONDUCT YOURSELF LIKE
A HUMAN BEING WHEN THEY TREAT
YOU LIKE AN ANIMAL.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH THE
FULL PROGRAM TONIGHT ON PBS.
NEXT WEEK, FRONTLINE WILL AIR
THE SECOND PARTIT
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE SUPREME COURT UPHELD
MICHIGAN'S VOTER-APPROVED BAN ON
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN COLLEGE
ADMISSIONS.
THE COURT ALSO HEARD ARGUMENTS
IN A MAJOR COPYRIGHT FIGHT
BETWEEN TELEVISION NETWORKS AND
AN INTERNET FIRM THAT
RE-SELLS SIGNALS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
AND U.N. HUMAN RIGHTS
INVESTIGATORS REPORTED MASS
KILLINGS IN SOUTH SUDAN, WITH
SCORES OF VICTIMS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, TO MARK EARTH DAY, WE
COMPILED A LIST OF SOME LESSER-
KNOWN SPECIES THAT ARE
THREATENED AROUND THE GLOBE.
SEE STUNNING PHOTOS OF THE
AMAZON RIVER DOLPHIN, THE HORNED
PARAKEET AND OTHERS, ON OUR
RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
>> ALLOW US A PRIVILEGE OF
SALUTING JOE CAMP WHO TODAY
CELEBRATES 40 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO PUBLIC TELEVISION AND WTTA -A
IN WASHINGTON.
CONGRATULATIONS, JOE.
>> Woodruff: SEE YOU AGAIN
ONLINE AND TOMORROW EVENING FROM
ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS HOUR.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.